Dataset Publication Tutorial (#711)
NeurodataWithoutBorders/nwb-guide: docs/tutorials/dataset_publication.rst

Dataset Publication
=======================================

For this tutorial, we'll be adapting the previous :doc:`Multi-Session Tutorial </tutorials/multiple_sessions>` to publish our data to the DANDI Archive.

Resume the conversion on the home page, then navigate back to the **Workflow** page.

> Change your original selection to specify that you’d like to publish your data to the DANDI Archive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change your original selection to specify that you’d like to publish your data to the :dandi-archive:`DANDI Archive <>`.
```

> .. note::

Reviewer: I think this note might be better at the very top, with the bold suggestion of requirements listed first then context added explaining why

Author: Updated to more clearly outline the changes required by the user before the main body of this tutorial begins. This may be extended to the other workflows (particularly the Multi-Session Workflow) based on the feedback from yesterday's user test.

This doesn't match your original request directly, though. If you'd like that done, can you make the changes to show an outline of what you're expecting here?

>     Gaining access to the DANDI Archive can involve a long approval process. Make sure you’ve created an account on the :dandi-staging:`DANDI staging instance <>` before starting this section of the tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Gaining access to DANDI requires approval from the archive administrators. Make sure you’ve created an account on the :dandi-staging:`DANDI staging instance <>` before starting this section of the tutorial.
```

>     We’re going use the Staging instance for this tutorial so we don’t crowd the DANDI Archive with tutorial outputs! However, you’ll likely want to publish real data on the main instance—which will require a separate approval process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    We’re going use the Staging server for this tutorial so we don’t crowd the DANDI Archive with tutorial outputs! However, you’ll likely want to publish real data on the main instance—which will require a separate approval process.
```

I think people might be more familiar with the server nomenclature - we call it instance sometimes because that's how the API has certain flags set

    Once you receive notice that your account was approved, you can move on to the next steps.

Navigate back to the **Conversion Review** page and ensure that you save the workflow change as you do.

You'll now notice that the **Exit Pipeline** button has been replaced with **Next**, allowing you to move forward with publication on the DANDI Archive.

DANDI Upload
------------
You’ll need to specify your DANDI API keys if you haven’t uploaded from the GUIDE before. These keys are unique between the Main and Staging instance.

.. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/dandi/api-tokens.png
  :align: center
  :alt: A pop-up asking for DANDI API keys

> To get your API key, visit the :dandi-staging:`staging website <>` and click on the profile icon in the top-right corner. This will show a dropdown with a copy button, which will assign your API key to the clipboard. Submit this to the Staging API Key input on the GUIDE.

Reviewer: Gosh, I know this is out of scope for the e2e but it sure would be nice to have a screenshot of the top right corner of the website for showing this, as it takes people a while to see it sometimes

.. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/dandi/api-token-added.png
  :align: center
  :alt: DANDI staging API key added

Once you have specified your Staging API Key, the **Dandiset** input will allow you to select any existing Dandiset associated with your account by ID (e.g. 207698) or name (e.g. NWB GUIDE Test).

Continue to the next page to trigger your upload to the DANDI Archive.

.. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/dandi/dandiset-id.png
  :align: center
  :alt: DANDI upload page with Dandiset ID specified

Creating a Dandiset from the GUIDE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
If you do not already own a Dandiset on staging, you will need to create one. Press the Create New Dandiset button to open a pop-up that guides you through the required fields for Dandiset creation—particularly Title, Archive (for our purposes, Development Server), Description, and License.

Once this pop-up form is submitted, the Dandiset input will now contain your new Dandiset.

> Final Review

Reviewer: What do you think about adding something at the end about how to follow the exact same process except replace staging with the main archive for real data? Or emphasize that distinction a tad more one-to-one in the earlier part?

Author: Hmm this sounds more like something we'd emphasize in the Next Steps tutorial.

Can you provide the changes you'd expect in the earlier part? If you think this could be clearer, then we definitely should introduce those changes here.

Reviewer: > Hmm this sounds more like something we'd emphasize in the Next Steps tutorial.

Except many people will find this tutorial page thinking it will tell them how to actually upload to the actual archive - would be weird to not have any mention

> Can you provide the changes you'd expect in the earlier part?

I just mean mention it at the beginning rather than the end

Author: Added some emphasis in this section. Though it seems like we're already mentioning this in the beginning:

```
We’re going use the Staging server for this tutorial so we don’t crowd the DANDI Archive with `synthetic` datasets! However, you’ll want to publish your `real` data on the main instance—which will require a separate approval process.
```

Reviewer: RIght but that's about approval - so just one extra comment about how the workflow is exactly the same except anywhere you select 'staging' you would replace that with the main archive

Dataset Publication
=======================================

For this tutorial, we'll be adapting the previous :doc:`Multi-Session Tutorial </tutorials/multiple_sessions>` to publish our data to the DANDI Archive.

.. note::
    This tutorial focuses on uploading to the Staging server.

    **When working with real data, you'll want to publish to the Main Archive**. In this case, follow the same steps outlined here—except replace the Staging server with the Main Archive.

.. note::
    Gaining access to DANDI requires approval from the archive administrators. Separate approval is required for both the main archive and the staging server.

>     **This tutorial requires an account on the :dandi-staging:`DANDI staging server <>`**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **This tutorial requires an account on the** :dandi-staging:`DANDI staging server <>`.
```

Dang, I guess the links can be bolded

--------------
1. Resume the conversion via the **Convert** page

2. Navigate to the **Workflow** page.

   a. Specify that you’d like to publish your data to the :dandi-archive:`DANDI Archive <>`.

3. Navigate back to the **Conversion Review** page

You'll now notice that the **Exit Pipeline** button has been replaced with **Next**, allowing you to move forward with publication on the DANDI Archive.

DANDI Upload
------------
You’ll need to specify your DANDI API keys if you haven’t uploaded from the GUIDE before. These keys are unique between the Main and Staging instance.

.. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/dandi/api-tokens.png
  :align: center
  :alt: A pop-up asking for DANDI API keys

To get your API key, visit the :dandi-staging:`staging website <>` and click on the profile icon in the top-right corner. This will show a dropdown with a copy button, which will assign your API key to the clipboard.

.. figure:: ../assets/dandi/api-token-location.png
  :align: center
  :alt: DANDI staging API key added

Submit this to the Staging API Key input on the GUIDE.

.. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/dandi/api-token-added.png
  :align: center
  :alt: DANDI staging API key added

> Once you have specified your Staging API Key, the **Dandiset** input will allow you to select any existing Dandiset associated with your account by ID (e.g. 207698) or name (e.g. NWB GUIDE Test).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have specified your Staging API Key, the **Dandiset** input will allow you to select any existing Dandiset associated with your account by ID (e.g., "207698") or name (e.g., "NWB GUIDE Test").
```

Continue to the next page to trigger your upload to the DANDI Archive.

.. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/dandi/dandiset-id.png
  :align: center
  :alt: DANDI upload page with Dandiset ID specified

Creating a Dandiset from the GUIDE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> If you do not already own a Dandiset on staging, you will need to create one. Press the Create New Dandiset button to open a pop-up that guides you through the required fields for Dandiset creation—particularly Title, Archive (in this case, Development Server), Description, and License.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not already own a Dandiset on staging, you will need to create one.

Press the Create New Dandiset button to open a pop-up that guides you through the required fields for Dandiset creation—particularly Title, Archive (in this case, Development Server), Description, and License.
```

What do you think about a screenshot of this popup?

Author: Added!

Once this pop-up form is submitted, the Dandiset input will now contain your new Dandiset.

Final Review
------------

> Once your upload to the DANDI Archive is complete, you will be able to review a quick overview of the associated Dandiset and a list of the uploaded files from this pipeline.

Author: Just an oversight. Added!

Dataset Publication
=======================================

For this tutorial, we'll be adapting the previous :doc:`Multi-Session Tutorial </tutorials/multiple_sessions>` to publish our data to the DANDI Archive.

.. note::
    This tutorial focuses on uploading to the Staging server.

    **When working with real data, you'll want to publish to the Main Archive**. In this case, follow the same steps outlined here—except replace the Staging server with the Main Archive.

.. note::
    Gaining access to DANDI requires approval from the archive administrators. Separate approval is required for both the main archive and the staging server.

    **This tutorial requires an account on the** :dandi-staging:`DANDI staging server <>`.

>     We’re going to use the Staging server for this tutorial so we don’t crowd the DANDI Archive with `synthetic` datasets! However, you’ll want to publish your `real` data on the main instance—which will require a separate approval process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    We’re going to use the Staging server for this tutorial so we don’t crowd the main DANDI Archive with `synthetic` datasets! However, you’ll want to publish your `real` data on the main server—which will require a separate approval process.
```

    Once you receive notice that your account was approved, you can move on to the next steps.

Workflow Setup
--------------
1. Resume the conversion via the **Convert** page

2. Navigate to the **Workflow** page.

   a. Specify that you’d like to publish your data to the :dandi-archive:`DANDI Archive <>`.

3. Navigate back to the **Conversion Review** page

You'll now notice that the **Exit Pipeline** button has been replaced with **Next**, allowing you to move forward with publication on the DANDI Archive.

DANDI Upload
------------

> You’ll need to specify your DANDI API keys if you haven’t uploaded from the GUIDE before. These keys are unique between the Main and Staging instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You’ll need to specify your DANDI API keys if you haven’t uploaded from the GUIDE before. These keys are unique between the Main and Staging servers.
```
